📄 Documentation: Flask Local File Dashboard
Overview
The Flask Local File Dashboard is a web application that scans a folder on your computer, categorizes files by type (images, documents, spreadsheets, audio, videos, others), and displays the distribution using a pie chart powered by Chart.js. This project demonstrates how Flask can be used to interact with the local file system and present data visually in a browser.

Features
Scans a specified folder on your laptop.

Categorizes files into predefined types.

Counts the number of files in each category.

Displays results in a responsive pie chart.

Provides a quick overview of your local file distribution.

Project Structure
Code
FlaskFileDashboard/
│
├── app.py                # Main Flask application
└── templates/
    └── dashboard.html    # HTML template with Chart.js pie chart
Workflow
File scanning: The app walks through the specified folder (SCAN_FOLDER) and collects all file names.

Categorization: Each file is matched against known extensions (e.g., .jpg, .pdf, .mp3). If no match is found, it is placed in the “Others” category.

Counting: The number of files in each category is calculated.

Template rendering: Clean lists of categories and counts are passed to the Jinja2 template.

Visualization: Chart.js renders a pie chart showing the distribution of files.

Usage
Update the SCAN_FOLDER variable in app.py to the folder you want to analyze.

Run the application:

bash
python app.py
Open your browser at http://127.0.0.1:5000/.

View the pie chart showing file distribution.

Customization
Change folder: Modify SCAN_FOLDER in app.py to scan a different directory.

Add file types: Extend the FILE_TYPES dictionary to include more categories.

Adjust chart size: In dashboard.html, set <canvas id="pieChart" width="400" height="400"> or use CSS to control chart dimensions.

Limitations
Only scans one folder at a time.

Does not display actual file names, only counts.

Large folders may take longer to process.

Future Enhancements
Add drill-down functionality to show actual file names when clicking on a pie slice.

Allow users to select folders dynamically via the web interface.

Integrate file size analysis to show storage usage per category.

Add multiple chart types (bar chart, doughnut chart) for comparison.
